DIMEV

1.   ff. 13-17   In winter when the weather was cold Number 2688-2
Thomas Brampton’s version of the Seven Penitential Psalms — 8-line stanzas

2.   ff. 26v-27v   There is no creator but one Number 5577-1
‘Do Merci bifore thi Judement’ — eight twelve-line stanzas (ababababbcbc) with this refrain

3.   f. 28   O Lord Our Lord Thy name how marvelous Number 3970-30
Geoffrey Chaucer, the Prioress’s Prologue of the Canterbury Tales — 35 lines in 7-line, rhyme royal stanzas.

4.   ff. 28-31   There was in Asia in a great city Number 5601-32
Geoffrey Chaucer, the Prioress’s Tale of the Canterbury Tales — 203 lines in 7-line, rhyme royal stanzas.

5.   ff. 31-32v   As I fared in a frith Number 598-1
‘In þi most welth wisely be ware’ — eleven 8-line stanzas

6.   f. 48v   Have one God in worship Number 1814-4
The Ten Commandments — generally eight long lines

7.   f. 49   Lief man I beseech thee Number 3077-3
Flee the Deadly Sins — five lines

The Prioress' tale from the Canterbury Tales is included in this manuscript. Although the tale apprears in several other 
manuscripts, it is an outlier in this group of manuscirpts. No other manuscript contained both the Prioress' Tale and 
The Abbey or The Charter (or any conflated version). Chaucer is not a usual companion for the Abbey and the Charter.

The Charter of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost : a Critical edition from all known extant manuscrpts with introduction notes and glossary Fanning 
Ms harley 1704 British Museum 
MED dates on Ms c.1465 Codex partim chartaceus, partim membranaceus, in fol mi. ex diversis Tractatibus simul compacturis constans; in quo continentur, Senio Membranea, cui Titulus, Leges que vocantur Leges Edwardi, quia cum diu essent dimisse, ipsas fecit reparare: et de Legibus Willelmi. Me autem judice hae leges Sunt 
1. Leges Regis Canuti, binis ad calcem Capitibus, et Praefatione; quam impressae, auctiores. 
2. Leges R. Eadwardi Confessoris prout a R. Willelmo Primo Confirmatae. 
3. Adnotation de Anglo- Saxonum manusae et mancae valore. (Registration of the Anglo Saxons)
Sequitur pars Codicis chartacei, sed tamen vetusti in quo 
4. A fragment of a comment upon the vii Penetential Psalmsl in Old English Verse *DIMEV
5. An Apocryphal or rather fabulous tract (beginning and ending with scripture) about the creation of Adam and Eve, their penitence and sufferings as also about their death and internment, etc. 
6. A poem to Christ; whose rubric is "Do mercy to fore thi Judgement." DIMEV 
7. A poem entitled Alma Redemtoris Mater. Tis a legend upon the sotry of the jews murdering a young boy who had learned to sing that Anthem in Honor of the Virgin Mary 
8. Anoher, on this saying, In thy Most helth, wisely be ware DIMEV
9. An Allegorical retis of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost 
  In the library of Corpus Christi College in Oxford is another copy of this treatise, acknowledging John Alcock for the author. This   John Alcock during teh last 30 years of his life, was bishop of rochester, worcester and Ely, successively; He was also master of     the Rolls and died with the reputation of a Saint, A.D. 1500
9a. Here is the treastise of the Abbey of the holy ghost. f32b
9b. The Charter of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost (f. 37b-48b)
10. Divine and Moral Counsels; but striking at some general points of religion then most in vogue. as 'forbere a wicked word fro thyn euen Cristen; &it schalle like me better than thou bete thyself with all so monye Roddis as growen in an Acre of Londe..."
11. Legend or fabulous isotry of the three Wise Men or Kings of Cullen. Imperf
Then follow by much later hands. 
12. Mr. secretary Nauntons? Fragment Regalia or Observations on Queene Elizabeth, her tymes and Favorites 
13. A Copie book done (as it seems) by some Boy, about A.D. 1650.. The Leaf beginning with the leter E is wanting. 

Late Medieval English Scribes
http://www.medievalscribes.com/index.php?browse=manuscripts&id=80&navlocation=London&navlibrary=British%20Library&nav=off
Manuscript Description
London, British Library MS Harley 1704 part 2
 
MS Appellation:	Hl1 (Manly and Rickert)
Title:	Prioress's Tale
Author:	Chaucer
Contents:	1. Leges Edwardi on vellum. 2. Collection of English religious verse and prose including the Prioress's Tale (ff28-31) on paper. 3. Naunton, Fragmenta Regalis, paper. 4. Book of verses and drawings.
Language:	English
Scribal Hands:	
Unknown
Examples of the hand. Click on the link above for full details and images of individual letter forms.
***************
Display a full page showing this scribe's hand

Dialect:	LP 302; County: Leics
Material:	Combination
No of Folios:	i marbled flyleaf + iii paper flyleaves + 1-166 + ii paper flyleaves + i marbled flyleaf.
Pagination:	Modern pencil in top right corner.
Quiring:	Uncertain as the leaves have been mounted individually.
Signatures:	A few very faint traces in quires 2-4.
Catchwords:	None in Prioress's Tale but they do exist on ff 23v, 39v and 55v.
Page Size:	277 x 195
Frame:	2 x vertical, 2 x horizontal; square but ruling barely visible.
Writing Space:	190 x 128
Incipits and Explicits:	'Amen' as explicit to Prioress's Tale.
Marginal Headings:	None in Prioress's Tale.
Title by Scribe:	Red ink 'Alma redemptoris mater' as title in display script of scribe.
Paragraph Marks:	None in Prioress's Tale.
Flourished Initials:	Three-line red pen initial begins the tale and initial letters of lines are tipped in red.
Other Names (not owners):	On f24r the name 'John' ?? is visible in the top margin; the surname has been trimmed off. On f144 is the name Robert Clare and the last part of the manuscript consists of painted flowers and sprays accompanied by a written verse.
Miscellaneous Info:	See Seymour for its ownership by Henry Worsley (d. 1747).
Further Information:	Manly and Rickert vol. I, 238-240; Seymour vol. I, 139-140.
