DIMEV

1.   f. 9ra   A cross was made all of red / In the beginning of my book Number 26-5
De Proprietatibus Rerum (Glanville)

The Charter of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost : a Critical edition from all known extant manuscrpts with introduction notes and glossary Fanning 
Ms Plimpton 263 Columnia University 
Barthoomaeus Anglicus 13th century. the Propirtees of thinges, translated by John of trevisa. England. ca. 1440. Measurements. 55 x 39 cm. Script space: 365 x 230 mm. (fol. 10r) 
Foliation. 379 vellum leaves. (fol.1-379 in ms of 388 leaves) bound in quaternions. with catchwords. Ruled. running titles. 
Columns and lines. 2 columns. 43 lines (fol.9v). Writing. Large clear English Gothic miniscule book-hand, resembling the lettre de forme or littera quadrata with abbreviations. The work of four or five scribes. Decoration: On fol 9r. at the commencement of the text, is a full double border illuminated and painted in gold blue and magenta. done in typically English style with floral ornamentation, scroll work, pendant leaves and gold studds. At  the base of the border in the center is an illuminated arms of the Charworth family [i.e. Sir Thomas Chaworth (obit 1459). Decorative initials and borders introduce books and sections or chapters]. 
Binding: Rebound by Steinman, 1969, quarter leather (Oasis). 
Contents:
1. [tabula capitulorum]
2. "be hit remembride that in Bartholomewe de proprietatibus rerum are nyntene bokes" 
3. The Charter of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost F.379v-386r
4. The Medis off the masse (so titled in explicit).

https://exhibitions.cul.columbia.edu/exhibits/show/plimpton/encyclopedias
Columbia University Libraries
"Our tools of learning": George Arthur Plimpton's Gifts to Columbia University 
BARTHOLOMAEUS ANGLICUS
De proprietatibus rerum [in the English translation of John Trevisa]

Manuscript book on parchment England, mid 15th century

Plimpton MS 263

Bartholomaeus lectured in divinity at the University of Paris and became a Franciscan about 1225. His De proprietatibus rerum (“On the Properties of Things”) covered all of the knowledge of the day. It was extremely popular, to judge by the number of extant manuscripts of the work.

The Plimpton manuscript is distinguished in a number of ways. First by its size: this is the heaviest codex that we own, weighing well over 40 pounds. Its 776 pages or 388 leaves probably represent the skins of 194 animals. Second, by its decoration and provenance: the ample gold and colors in the border decorations and the vast empty margins demonstrate Sir Thomas Chaworth’s liberality in commissioning his book. (His arms are incorporated into the lower border of the first page of text.)

Third and most importantly, its status as copy text: within some 50 years of the book’s production, it served as printer’s copy for the first printed edition of the text, produced by Wynkyn de Worde, Westminster, ca. 1495. Probably because it was clearly so valuable a book, the printer made only the tiniest of marks as he cast off breaks in pages and quires for the printing, and probably the manuscript’s extreme value allowed it to survive once the printed book came into existence. For the approximately 29,000 known pre-1501 printed works, we only know of 37 parent-manuscripts, and this is one of them
